Reformatting page. Please wait... completed

vmstat(1)                                                           vmstat(1)

NAME

  vmstat - Displays virtual memory statistics

SYNOPSIS

  vmstat interval [count]

  vmstat [-f|-M|-P|-s]

  The vmstat command displays system statistics for virtual memory,
  processes, trap, and CPU activity.

OPTIONS

  -f  Displays only statistics about the number of forks since system startup
      (see the fork() call).

  -M  Displays information about memory usage by buckets.  This information
      can be used for kernel debugging.

  -P  Displays the following accumulated statistics about physical memory
      use:

      Total Physical Memory
          Number of megabytes of installed memory, and the equivalent page
          value.

      Physical Memory Clusters
          How physical memory is clustered.  The starting and ending page
          frames (pfn) and where the memory is utilized (pal, os, and
          *nvram).

      Physical Memory Use
          A breakdown of memory usage by os, the starting and ending page
          frames, type of usage such as unixtable, or bss and the total phy-
          sical memory in use.

      Managed Pages Break Down
          A snapshot of where managed physical memory resided when the vmstat
          command executed.  The display shows the number of pages in the
          free queue, active and inactive pages, wired pages and unified
          buffer cache (ubc) pages.

      WIRED Pages Break Down
          A further breakdown of physical pages that are wired in memory.
          The display typically shows:

            +
            vm and ubc wired pages
            
            +
            meta data, malloc, and contig pages

            +
            user, kernel, and free ptepages.

  -s  Displays the following accumulated statistics along with the page size:

      active pages
          Total number of pages that are currently in use but can be used for
          paging.

      inactive pages
          Total number of VM pages that are allocated but are most likely to
          be used for paging.

      free pages
          Total number of unreferenced (clean) pages that are available for
          use.

      wire pages
          Total number of pages that are currently in use and cannot be used
          for paging (not a real list).

      virtual memory page faults
          Number of address translation faults that have occurred.

      copy-on-write page faults
          Number of copy-on-write page faults, which occur if the requested
          page is shared by a parent process and one or more child processes
          (using the fork function) and if one of the processes needs to

     manaamCla (37%)
          translation buffer and copies the contents of the requested page
          into the new address for modification by the process.

      zero file page faults
          Number of zero-filled-on-demand page faults, which occur if VM can-
          not find the page in the internal data structures and if the
          requested page is new and has never been referenced.  In this case,
          VM initializes a physical page (the contents of the page are zeroed
          out) and loads the address into the page table.
          modify the page.  In this case, VM loads a new address into the
      reattaches from reclaim list
          Number of pages that have been faulted while on the inactive list.

      pages paged in
          Number of requests for pages from a pager.

      pages paged out
          Number of pages that have been paged out.

      task and thread context switches
          Number of task and thread context switches per second.

      device interrupts
          Number of nonclock device interrupts per second.

      system calls
          Number of system calls called per second.

DESCRIPTION

  If you specify interval, vmstat displays the statistics listed below every
  interval seconds.  The first report is for all time since a reboot, and
  each subsequent report is for the last interval only.  If you specify count
  after interval, count specifies the number of reports.  For example, vmstat
  1 10 produces 10 reports at 1-second intervals.  You cannot specify count
  without interval, since the first numeric argument to vmstat is always
  assumed to be interval.

  At any time, system memory can be in use by the kernel in kseg, wired
  (pages that are currently in use and cannot be used for paging), on the
  active list (pages that are currently in use but can be used for paging),
  on the inactive list (pages that are allocated but are most likely to be
  used for paging), on the free list (pages that are clean and available for
  use), or used by the Unified Buffer Cache (UBC).  The vmstat command does
  not report on the memory in kseg and memory used by the UBC.

  The following values are displayed:

  Process information:

  r   Number of threads that are running or are runnable.

  w   Number of threads waiting interruptibly.

  u   Number of threads waiting uninterruptibly.

  Virtual memory information:

  act Total number of pages on the active list, the inactive list (pages that
      are allocated but are most likely to be used for paging), and the Uni-
      fied Buffer Cache (UBC) least recently used (LRU) list.

  free
      Total number of pages that are clean and available for use.

  wire
      Total number of pages that are currently in use and cannot be used for
      paging (not a real list).

  fault
      Number of address translation faults that have occurred.

      Number of zero-filled-on-demand page faults, which occur if VM cannot
      find the page in the internal data structures andlif the requested page
      is new and has never been referenced.  Inethis case, VM initializes a
      physical page (the contents of the page are zeroed out) and loadsbtheer
      address into the page table.he requested page into the new address for
      modification by the process.
  react
      Number of pages that have been faulted while on the inactive list.

  pin Number of requests for pages from a pager.

  pout
      Number of pages that have been paged out.

  Interrupt information:

  in  Number of nonclock device interrupts per second.

  sy  Number of system calls called per second.

  cs  Number of task and thread context switches per second.

  CPU information:

  us  Percentage of user time for normal and priority processes.

  sy  Percentage of system time.

  id  Percentage of idle time.

  Specify -f to display fork statistics only.  Specify -s for a single
  display of accumulated statistics, as well as page size.

SEE ALSO

  Commands:  iostat(1)

       